and here are some practice problems
dealing with pressure and in the first
one here we're told that a concrete a
concrete pillar is rectangular in shape
two feet wide two feet deep and twenty
feet tall so I'll draw a picture and you
can just make a rough sketch here and so
this is this is two feet down at the
bottom two feet wide and two feet deep
so I'll make a 3d sketch like this okay
so that that length there is - and that
is - and it's 20 feet tall and those
measurements are all in feet and the
column weighs six tons and one ton is
2,000 pounds so that tells you how much
force from gravity is pushing down on
the ground so let's somethin let's draw
this draw the hidden lines in here and
you can get a visual image of the bottom
here this is the bottom of the column
and the weight of the column is spread
out over that area so it's resting on
the on the ground here and so a certain
force spread out over a certain area
gives us a pressure and here's the
calculation the force the downward force
is six tons that's 12,000 pounds so
we're using pounds here to measure force
and the area here now the area is two
feet by two feet but we're told to give
the answer in pounds per square inch so
we need to convert that to feet is 24
inches so this is 24 inches by 24 inches
and when you multiply 24 by 24 you get a
big number
it's 576 inches squared or square inches
and then the pressure is the force
divided by the area so it will be this
many pounds divided by this many square
inches so that's 12,000 pounds divided
by
576 square inches and 12,000 divided by
576 comes out to 20.8 and the units of
course pounds per square inch so 20.8
pounds per square inch okay the next one
we're told that the contact the contact
patch of a car tire is the part of the
tire that contacts the pavement and a
certain car tire has a certain car has
tires that have a contact patch that is
7 inches by 4 inches so so think about
this a tire basically is round right but
it sits on the road and there's a lot of
weight and it squashes flat so it's
actually flat along the bottom just for
a small area right there it doesn't
contact the road at a single point
there's an area of contact and that's
what we call the contact contact patch
and in this case we're told that it's 7
inches by 4 inches and that's for one
tire there are four tires and then we're
given some numbers here the car weighs
3584 pounds and then we're told to find
the pressure and pounds per square inch
given these measurements in inches 7
inches by 4 inches find the pressure
that the car exerts on the road so again
the calculation will be the standard
calculation for pressure pressure as a
force over area so we need to know the
force which is given right there 3584
pounds and we need to know the area well
the area is just going to be the area of
the contact patch times 4 so this is 7
inches by 4 inches and that's obviously
28 square inches that's for one tire we
need to multiply that by four because
there are four tires so 8 times 4 is 32
4 times 2 is 8 plus 3 is 11 112
so it's 112 square inches for the area
so then the pressure will be the force
divided by the area and that's what
we're trying to find find the pressure
so three thousand five hundred eighty
four pounds divided by a hundred and
twelve square inches and we pull out the
calculator 3584 divided by a hundred and
twelve is 32 that's 32 pounds per square
inch and some of you might recognize
this number thirty-two pounds per square
inch that's the pressure in the tire now
that's not the same for every car some
cars have higher pressure tires but for
a lot of cars thirty-two pounds per
square inches the air pressure in the
tire and of course the the pressure on
the road should equal the air pressure
in the tire thirty-two pounds per square
inch in this case